

code: ASTU 100
name: 1st Year CAP Seminar
cred: 6
desc: CAP seminar focused on writing and reading, including both literature and introduction to academic scholarship. Topics vary each year. Credits count toward both the Faculty of Arts Writing and Research Requirement and the Literature Requirement. Restricted to students in the Coordinated Arts Program. 

code: ASTU 101
name: Writing for Research in the Social Sciences and the Humanities
cred: 3
desc: Analysis of and practice in academic writing and reading in the social sciences and the humanities. Restricted to students in the Coordinated Arts Program. 

code: ASTU 160
name: International Perspectives on Writing in the Social Sciences and Humanities
cred: 3
desc: Analysis of and practice in writing and reading for research in the social sciences and humanities; national and international aspects of scholarship and of writing cultures. Fulfills the first component of the Arts' Writing and Research Requirement.  Restricted to students in the Sciences Po - UBC Dual Degree. 
crer: ASTU 204.
creq: ASTU 204

code: ASTU 201
name: Canada, Japan and the Pacific: Cultural Studies
cred: 3
desc: An interdisciplinary introduction to the cultures of Canada and Japan, and the interrelations between them. Specific topics vary from year to year but will include themes such as constructing the past; nationalism; self-perceptions; cross-cultural perceptions; multiculturalism in Canada and Japan; images in architecture, film and literature; mythologies. 

code: ASTU 202
name: Canada, Japan and the Pacific: Political, Economic and Geographical Perspectives
cred: 3
desc: An interdisciplinary introduction to political, economic and geographical interactions between Japan and Canada, the links between these countries and other Pacific Rim nations, and the historical origins of these connections. Specific topics will vary from year to year, but will include themes such as economic integration in the Pacific region; the role of resource economies such as Canada's; security relations in the Pacific; the role of Japanese investment in the Asia-Pacific region. 

code: ASTU 204
name: Topics in Interdisciplinary Arts Studies
cred: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
desc: Selected interdisciplinary topics in Arts studies.  For upcoming offerings including course descriptions and possible enrolment restrictions, please see section information in the UBC course schedule. 

code: ASTU 210
name: Global Citizenship, Part 1: Introduction
cred: 3
desc: Themes of global citizenship, sustainability, and civil society, and barriers and bridges to global thinking. 

code: ASTU 211
name: Global Citizenship, Part 2: Community Service Learning and Capstone Conference
cred: 3
prer: One of ASTU 210, EDUC 210.
preq: ASTU 210 or EDUC 210

code: ASTU 260
name: Knowledge Dissemination: Communicating Research to Public Audiences
cred: 3
desc: Research, theory, and practice in the communication of expert knowledge to non-specialist audiences; popular media and dissemination. Restricted to students in the Sciences Po - UBC Dual Degree. 
crer: ASTU 400.
creq: ASTU 400

code: ASTU 310
name: Co-operative Work Placement I
cred: 3
desc: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Orientation workshops. Final work term report required. Restricted to students in the Arts Co-operative Education Program. 
prer: 6 credits first-year English or Arts I; 6 credits of science; 6 credits of literature; satisfaction of Faculty language requirement.
preq: 6 credits first-year English or Arts I; 6 credits of science; 6 credits of literature; satisfaction of Faculty language requirement

code: ASTU 311
name: Co-operative Work Placement II
cred: 3
desc: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report required. 
prer: ASTU 310.
preq: ASTU 310

code: ASTU 360
name: Community-Based Research and Knowledge Creation
cred: 3
desc: Principles and practice of conducting research in community partnership. 
prer: Third-year standing.
preq: Third-year standing

code: ASTU 400
name: Interdisciplinary Studies in Arts
cred: 3, 4, 5
desc: For upper-division students in the Faculty of Arts. Topics announced annually. 

code: ASTU 401
name: Special Topics in Arts Studies
cred: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
desc: Selected topics offered by a distinguished visitor to the campus. For upcoming offerings including course descriptions and possible enrolment restrictions, please see section information in the UBC course schedule. 

code: ASTU 402
name: Living Language: Science and Society
cred: 3
desc: Multidisciplinary course in which students, individually and in groups, examine, integrate and apply subject-specific knowledge through the lens of language and the framework of the language sciences, with a focus on themes of real-world importance. 
prer: Fourth-year standing or permission of the instructor.
preq: Fourth-year standing or permission of the instructor

code: ASTU 410
name: Co-operative Work Placement III
cred: 3
desc: Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report. 
prer: ASTU 311.
preq: ASTU 311

code: ASTU 411
name: Co-operative Work Placement IV
cred: 3
desc: Optional extra work placement. Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report. 
prer: ASTU 410.
preq: ASTU 410

code: ASTU 412
name: Co-operative Work Placement V
cred: 3, 4, 5
desc: Optional extra work placement. Approved and supervised work experience with a public or private organization for a minimum of 13 weeks full-time. Final work term report. 
prer: ASTU 411.
preq: ASTU 411