

code: ENDS 211
name: Introduction to Environmental Design
cred: 3
desc: Survey of the visual, cultural, ecological and spatial literacies in environmental design and planning. 

code: ENDS 221
name: Sustainability by Design
cred: 3
desc: Introduction to interactions between human and natural urban systems using local and international examples of successful sustainable community designs. 

code: ENDS 231
name: Thinking by Design
cred: 3
desc: Introduction to design thinking through the analysis of architecture, landscape architecture, urban design, and hands-on design projects. 

code: ENDS 281
name: Architecture in Context and Across Cultures: A History
cred: 3
desc: A world survey of architecture, from prehistory to postmodernity, which relates architecture to landscape and city, design principles and cultural values, formal and vernacular practices. It explores the different ways in which history has been conveyed and the purposes it serves. [2-0-1]

code: ENDS 301
name: Environmental Design Studio I
cred: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
desc: Introduction to the study of relationships of human beings' environments; methods of analysis and composition; physical properties of land, natural and man-made; simple spatial and functional programs deployed in the creation of outdoor spaces. 

code: ENDS 302
name: Environmental Design Studio II
cred: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
desc: Expands the terms of the purposeful transformation of "place" to include modifications to the environment at the scale of the individual; concepts of dwelling and habitation; the human body as an instrument of measure, dimension and design of the private realm. 
preq: ENDS 301

code: ENDS 320
name: Design, Media and Representation
cred: 3
desc: Theories, histories and techniques of design representation; geometry, design and expression are principle areas of focus. 

code: ENDS 401
name: Environmental Design Studio III
cred: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
desc: The exploration of a complex physical and spatial program for building in the public realm, resulting in an integrative design project. 
preq: ENDS 302

code: ENDS 402
name: Environmental Design Studio IV
cred: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
desc: Expands the scale and design enquiry to emphasize the relationships between communities and environment, urban infrastructure, and ecological systems. 
preq: ENDS 401

code: ENDS 404
name: Environmental Design History
cred: 3
desc: A survey of environmental influences in architecture and landscape architecture design across time, geographies, and cultures, from neolithic settlements to nineteenth-century urbanization. Restricted to students in the Environmental Design program. 

code: ENDS 420
name: Technology and Technique
cred: 3
desc: Introduction to fundamental design principles and investigations of buildings, landscape, machines and furniture, including structure, enclosure, envelope and detailing. 

code: ENDS 440
name: Environment and Urban Form
cred: 3
desc: Relationships between, and integration of, the natural environment and the physical form, spatial structure, and livability of cities. 

code: ENDS 482
name: Special Topics
cred: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8