

code: PATH 300
name: Background to Medical Laboratory Science
cred: 6
desc: Introductory lectures and laboratory sessions in clinical chemistry, haematology and blood banking, hospital microbiology, preparation and examination of tissue sections. For Medical Laboratory Science students without previous experience in hospital laboratories. [3-4; 0-0]
prer: All of BIOL 112, BIOL 200, BIOL 201, CHEM 123, CHEM 205, CHEM 233, CHEM 235, MICB 202.
preq: BIOL 112 and BIOL 200 and BIOL 201 and CHEM 123 and CHEM 205 and CHEM 233 and CHEM 235 and MICB 202

code: PATH 301
name: Basic and Physical Biochemistry for Medical Laboratory Scientists
cred: 4
desc: An integrated approach to specific areas of the theoretical and practical aspects of those physical and biological sciences relevant to medical laboratory science. Emphasis will be placed upon the application of basic science to those clinical disciplines practised by the medical laboratory scientist, e.g., histochemistry, clinical chemistry, microbiology, haematology, etc. 

code: PATH 303
name: Cytogenetics, Molecular Genetics, Tissue Culture & Cytology
cred: 4
desc: Fundamentals of human genetics and molecular biology as they relate to studying and detecting disease in a population; tissue culture techniques to assess cell viabilities; cytomorphology principles in disease detection. 

code: PATH 304
name: Normal Human Histology
cred: 4
desc: An advanced lecture and laboratory course in the microscopic structure of the human body necessary for a complete understanding of histochemistry and histopathology. 

code: PATH 305
name: Modern Microscopy
cred: 4
desc: A lecture and laboratory course in the theoretical and practical application of modern biological microscopes - compound, dissecting, comparison, dark ground, fluorescent, phase contrast, interference and electron microscopes. 

code: PATH 306
name: Laboratory Safety for Medical Laboratory Scientists
cred: 2
desc: Control processes for workplace hazards of radiological, chemical, and biological origin. 

code: PATH 327
name: Bacteriology, Mycology, Virology and Parasitology
cred: 4
desc: Descriptions of each group of human microbial pathogens according to biological attributes, clinical features, pathogenesis and pathology, epidemiology, immunological reactions, laboratory diagnosis, principles of antimicrobial therapy, preventative measures. For students in the Faculty of Medicine B.M.L.Sc. 

code: PATH 375
name: Introduction to Human Pathology
cred: 3
desc: A lecture-demonstration course designed to acquaint students in the allied health professions with a basic understanding of the causes, natural history, and pathophysiology of common disease processes. 
prer: 6 credits each first year BIOL and CHEM
preq: 6 credits each first year BIOL and CHEM

code: PATH 402
name: Medical Laboratory Science: Haematology
cred: 4
desc: A theoretical and practical examination of those modern concepts of haematology which relate to the practice of medical laboratory science. 

code: PATH 404
name: Diagnostic Histochemistry
cred: 6
desc: A lecture and laboratory course that encompasses the theory and the practice of currently available histochemical techniques. This course is to supplement the histopathological technique course taken as a requirement for CSLT (RT). 
prer: Certification.
preq: Certification

code: PATH 405
name: Seminars in Current Topics
cred: 3
desc: Oral and written presentation and critical appraisal of scientific papers. 

code: PATH 406
name: Clinical Chemistry
cred: 6
desc: This course will review and discuss the methodology of clinical chemistry in order to put these analytical methods into the broad perspective of the pathophysiology of human disease and biochemistry. 

code: PATH 407
name: Medical Laboratory Toxicology: Analytical, Clinical
cred: 3
desc: A theoretical and practical examination of analytical and pathophysiological aspects of clinical and forensic toxicology. 

code: PATH 408
name: Laboratory Administration
cred: 3
desc: Personnel management, staff management relationships, stock control, record keeping, etc. Medicolegal aspects of medical laboratory science. Theory and practice of quality control. Use of computers in the medical laboratory. 

code: PATH 415
name: Immunopathology
cred: 2
desc: Immunological events causing tissue injury. 

code: PATH 417
name: Human Bacterial Infections
cred: 3, 6
desc: Students acquire content relating to the virulence factors of the bacteria and the pathophysiology of the host while working through case scenarios on their own and in online groups. Students taking this course must be willing to engage in both self-directed and small-group learning. 
prer: MICB 202. Or equivalent.
preq: MICB 202. Or equivalent

code: PATH 427
name: Basic Principles of Infection Prevention and Control
cred: 3
desc: This course provides the basic principles to prevent the spread of microorganisms pathogenic to humans. It may be taken towards a Certificate in Infection Control. 

code: PATH 437
name: Viral Infections in Humans
cred: 3
desc: Interactions between viruses and humans; pathogenesis; prompt virological diagnosis; rationale for antiviral chemotherapy and prophylaxis. [3-0-0]

code: PATH 438
name: Medical Laboratory Science: Directed Studies
cred: 2, 3, 4, 5
desc: Investigation of a specific topic in Medical Laboratory Science. Permission of the department head is required. 

code: PATH 447
name: Directed Studies
cred: 3
desc: An elective in clinical infection control, medical microbiology or molecular biology. 
prer: All of PATH 427, PATH 467.
preq: PATH 427 and PATH 467

code: PATH 448
name: Introduction to Laboratory Medicine
cred: 2
desc: An elective course open to first-year medical students who spend at least three consecutive hours each week in one of the affiliated hospitals of the Department of Pathology, Vancouver Hospital, under the joint supervision of a Senior Resident in Pathology and the Professional Staff of the following Divisions: anatomical pathology, clinical biochemistry, haematology, paediatric pathology. Enrolment is limited. 

code: PATH 450
name: Systemic Pathology
cred: 0
desc: A series of Pathology discussions in conjunction with various clinical departments designed to illustrate the role of Pathology in the diagnosis and management of various diseases. 

code: PATH 451
name: Clerkship in Laboratory Medicine and Infection Prevention and Control
cred: 3
desc: May involve attendance at an approved institution and/or a project assigned by the instructor(s). Instructor permission required. Enrolment may be limited. 

code: PATH 452
name: Clerkship in Anatomic Pathology
cred: 3
desc: An elective course open to third-year medical students, designed to familiarize the student with Anatomic Pathology, including Surgical Pathology, Paediatric Pathology, Autopsy Pathology and Cytology. This elective may involve attendance at one or more affiliated hospitals. Registration requires consent of the Department and enrolment may be limited. 

code: PATH 453
name: Clinical Laboratory Haematology
cred: 0
desc: Correlative seminars based on haematology case studies relating clinical features to laboratory investigations. 

code: PATH 457
name: Clinical Laboratory Microbiology
cred: 3
desc: Selected clinical laboratory exercises plus seminars to illustrate the diagnosis and management of patients with microbial infections. Elective course limited to third- and fourth-year medical students. 
prer: Departmental approval required.
preq: Departmental approval required

code: PATH 467
name: Basic Microbiology for Infection Control
cred: 3
desc: The identification, clinical significance, and transmission of pathogenic organisms are presented. This course is available by correspondence or webCT. It may be taken towards fulfillment of the Certificate in Infection Control. 

code: PATH 477
name: Basic Epidemiology for Infection Control
cred: 3
desc: Epidemiology, study, design and analysis, and outbreak investigation as it applies to institutional infection control. 