

code: BMEG 101
name: Introduction to Biomedical Engineering
cred: 3
desc: Core principles of biomedical engineering from a clinical perspective. Sensors and instrumentation, bioelectric phenomenon, biosignals, physiological modeling, biomechanics, biomaterials, tissue engineering, the principles of and design for medical imaging equipment, clinical engineering, moral and ethical issues. 
preq: PHYS 157 and PHYS 158 and MATH 100 and MATH 101

code: BMEG 102
name: Biomedical Engineering Lab
cred: 2
desc: Rapid prototyping of mechanical, electrical and electromechanical systems. Building parts with state of the art software and 3-D printing. Use of laboratory equipment and instrumentation. 
preq: PHYS 157 and PHYS 158
creq: BMEG 101

code: BMEG 150
name: The Fundamental Units of Life: From Cells To Systems
cred: 4
desc: The structure and function of cells and how they are organized to generate tissues and organ systems [3-3*-0]
preq: (BIOL 12) and CHEM 1

code: BMEG 201
name: Technical Communication for Biomedical Engineers
cred: 3
desc: Report preparation, business correspondence, and oral presentation in biomedical engineering specific cases and projects. Credit will not be granted for both BMEG 201 and APSC 201. 
preq: ENGL 112 and BMEG 101 and BMEG 102

code: BMEG 210
name: Thermodynamics in Biomedical Engineering
cred: 2
desc: Work, heat and energy; material and energy balances; the first law and second law of thermodynamics; entropy and process reversibility; availability (energy) analysis; Hess's Law; thermodynamic properties of fluids; and applications to biomedical systems. 
preq: CHEM 123 is recommende

code: BMEG 220
name: Circuits and Electromagnetics with Application to Biomedical Engineering
cred: 4
desc: Electromagnetic phenomena in the  body; bioinstrumentation; electrostatic and electromagnetic fields, forces, capacitance and inductance; bio-effects of electromagnetic fields; and modelling electrical components of physiological and biomedical systems. 
preq: PHYS 157 and PHYS 158 and MATH 100 and MATH 101 and MATH 253 and MATH 256
creq: MATH 264

code: BMEG 230
name: Biomechanics I
cred: 4
desc: Integrating the study of two dimensional movement of animals and humans with the study of the manner in which forces on biomechanical structures such as bones, ligaments, tendons, muscles and joints cause motion. Techniques of solid mechanics and two dimensional rigid body dynamics. 
preq: BMEG 101 and PHYS 170

code: BMEG 250
name: Cellular  Physiology  and Biophysics
cred: 4
desc: Cellular structure and mechanisms of membrane transport, signal transduction, muscle mechanochemistry and neurotransmission. Structure and hierarchical organization up to the level of tissues. Light and electron microscopy. 
preq: BMEG 150

code: BMEG 257
name: Biomedical Engineering Design I
cred: 4
desc: Engineering design process for medical technologies. Clinical practice, the healthcare system, medical approach to diagnosis, ethics and regulations for clinical trials, medical technology management, medical device development and standards, use of statistics for evaluating medical technologies. 
preq: BMEG 101 and BMEG 102

code: BMEG 310
name: Introduction to Bioinformatics
cred: 3
desc: Principles behind the methods of bioinformatics. The use of bioinformatics databases and tools for solving problems in genomics, proteomics, structural biology and evolutionary biology. 
preq: BMEG 150 and APSC 160

code: BMEG 320
name: Bioengineering Feedback Systems and Controls
cred: 3
desc: Modeling, analysis and simulation of dynamic systems; system modeling by state space; linearization; feedback, stability and sensitivity; control system design. Examples from biological systems, assistive systems and biomedical equipment 
preq: PHYS 157 and MATH 253 and MATH 256 and BMEG 220

code: BMEG 330
name: Biomechanics II
cred: 3
desc: Principles and common elements of sports-, orthopaedic-, injury- and cellular length-biomechanics. Improving sports performance and preventing overuse injuries through sports biomechanics, designing orthopaedic implants through orthopaedic biomechanics, preventing injuries through injury biomechanics and identifying and filtering cancerous blood cells through cellular biomechanics. 
preq: BMEG 230

code: BMEG 350
name: Human Structure/Function from Cells to Systems
cred: 4
desc: Human anatomy, histology and physiology with examples from biomedical engineering. Anatomical compartmentation and function regulation; homeostatic control systems, sensors and effectors; intercellular communication strategies; and cellular and organ function assessment. 
preq: BMEG 150 and BMEG 250

code: BMEG 357
name: Biomedical  Engineering Design II
cred: 3
desc: Creating innovations in medical technologies. Case studies in need clinical identification. Supervised design process, building and testing prototypes with potential users. 
preq: BMEG 257

code: BMEG 370
name: Cellular  Responses  to Forces and Biomaterials
cred: 3
desc: Mechanical forces and biomaterials regulating cellular functions critical to tissue development, regeneration and repair. 
preq: BMEG 150 and BMEG 250 and BMEG 350

code: BMEG 371
name: Transport Phenomena within Cells and Tissues
cred: 3
desc: Fluid flow and mass transport analysis within healthy and diseased cells and tissues using mathematics. Drug delivery and tissue engineering. 
preq: MATH 100 and MATH 101 and MATH 253 and MATH 256

code: BMEG 372
name: Biomedical Materials and Drug Delivery
cred: 3
desc: Biomaterials science/engineering applied to design and synthesis of drug delivery systems. Biomaterial types, synthesis and testing; the use of biomaterials; biological response; biocompatibility and degradation; drug delivery systems; nanocarriers; modification of polymers; liposomes and micelles; nucleic acid, transdermal and oral delivery. 
preq: BMEG 150 and BMEG 250 and CHEM 123

code: BMEG 373
name: Microfludics
cred: 3
desc: Advantages and disadvantages of miniaturization of complex fluid flow processes. Manipulating liquid flow; electrophoretic velocity and mobility; serial dilution; capillary electrophoresis; integrated microfluidic platforms; and blood and the motility of bacteria. 
preq: CHBE 251

code: BMEG 390
name: Medical Imaging
cred: 3
desc: Physical principles of ultrasound, magnetic resonance, computed tomography, X-ray projection imaging and molecular imaging in medical imaging for diagnostics, therapeutics and interventions. 
preq: BMEG 220 and BMEG 250 and ELEC 371

code: BMEG 410
name: Biomedical Equipment, Physiology, and Anatomy
cred: 3
desc: Principles and operation of biomedical equipment for cardiovascular system, respiratory system, renal dialysis, endoscopy, surgery, and imaging. Functional relationships of biomedical equipment to physiology and anatomy of major body systems. Restricted to students in EECE and MECH Biomedical Engineering options. Credit will be given for only one of BMEG 410 or BMEG 510. [3-0-2*]

code: BMEG 430
name: Economics of Healthcare Solutions
cred: 3
desc: Canadian and USA engineering economics in BME and healthcare systems.  Economic equivalence, cost estimation, risk assessment, regulatory frameworks, economic optimization, intangible factors, ethics, sustainability, financial tools, commercialization and regulator regimes. 

code: BMEG 450
name: Biomedical Engineering Design Project
cred: 6
desc: Capstone design and development of a practical biomedical device or system. Projects provided by local industry and engineering research laboratories. 
preq: BMEG 350

code: BMEG 456
name: Clinical and Industrial Biomedical Engineering
cred: 3
desc: Principles of clinical practice, Canadian healthcare system, medical approach to diagnosis, ethics and regulations for clinical trials, medical technology management, medical device development and standards, biostatistics. Restricted to students in EECE and MECH Biomedical Engineering options. Credit will be granted for only one of BMEG 456 or BMEG 556. 

code: BMEG 474
name: Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine
cred: 3
desc: Biology and applications of stem cells in regenerative medicine. Modeling human biology and disease in vitro and in vivo. Regulatory and commercialization pathways for regenerative medicine innovations. 
preq: BMEG 150 and BMEG 250 and BMEG 350