

code: ENVR 200
name: Introduction to Environmental Science
cred: 3
desc: Seminars and field trips introducing the major global, regional, and local environmental issues facing human societies. [3-0-0]
preq: Open to all students with second-year or higher or standing

code: ENVR 300
name: Introduction to Research in Environmental Science
cred: 3
desc: Environmental research.  Students investigate research methodologies and reporting in a range of scientific disciplines and fields. [3-0-0]
preq: Open to all students with third-year or higher or standing in the Faculty of Science

code: ENVR 400
name: Community Project in Environmental Science
cred: 6
desc: Instructor-guided collaboration between student teams and community partners on community-based environmental science projects. Teams articulate project questions and goals, devise methods, conduct research and communicate results. Credit will be given for only one of ENVR 400 or ENVR 449. [3-0-0;3-0-0]
preq: ENVR 300

code: ENVR 410
name: Energy, Environment, and Society
cred: 3
desc: The role of energy in human societies throughout history and the environmental and social implications of energy use.  Coverage of both the science and policy of energy use.  Energy supply and demand, energy transitions, analytical tools, impacts, and alternatives. [3-0-0]
preq: Fourth-year standing in B.Sc. or B.A.Sc. or related programs

code: ENVR 420
name: Ecohydrology of Watersheds and Water Systems
cred: 3
desc: Analysis of water resources from a water-in-ecosystem perspective. Application to natural, managed, and urban systems, considering ecological interactions with hydrological processes. Exploration of biogeochemical processes related to water quality, and human impacts on water resources. [3-0-0]
preq: GEOB 305 or EOSC 329

code: ENVR 430
name: Ecological Dimensions of Sustainability
cred: 3
desc: Current issues. Application to agricultural, energy, and resource systems in terrestrial and aquatic contexts. Analysis of complex problems; incorporation of science into novel interdisciplinary solutions. [3-0-0]
preq: ENVR 300 or BIOL 230. Or fourth year standing in the BSCN program or other demonstrated ecology background

code: ENVR 440
name: Analytical Methods in Sustainability Science
cred: 3
desc: Sustainability analysis through a series of case studies. Example approaches include cost-benefit analysis, trade-offs analysis, and life-cycle analysis. Active learning in a computer lab using real-world data. [2-2-0]
preq: ENVR 200 or ASIC 220 or SCIE 220 or GEOG 211. Third-year standing

code: ENVR 448
name: Directed Studies in Environmental Science
cred: 3, 6
desc: Investigation of a topic to be agreed upon by a member of the faculty and the student.  Permission of an ENSC advisor and of the supervising faculty member is required prior to registration. 
preq: Third year standing in the Faculty of Science

code: ENVR 449
name: Environmental Science HonoursThesis
cred: 6
desc:  [3-0-0]
preq: ENVR 300 and fourth-year standing in the B.Sc. Environmental Sciences honours program

code: ENVR 490
name: Student Directed Seminars in Environmental Sciences
cred: 3
desc: Self-directed, collaborative studies in environmental sciences, in a group-learning environment, initiated and coordinated by senior undergraduate students with the supervision of a faculty advisor. Course structure, enrolment, and delivery methods will comply with the Handbook for Student Directed Seminars (www.vpacademic.ubc.ca/sds/sds_handbook.pdf). 
preq: Prerequisite: Third-year standing