

code: MIDW 101
name: Counselling for Maternity Care Providers
cred: 3
desc: Theory, knowledge, strategies, and skills of person-centered counselling including family systems, trauma theory, theory, grief counselling, motivational interviewing skills, self-awareness and mindfulness, interprofessional communication, and cultural competency in continuity of care. 

code: MIDW 102
name: Birth and its Meaning
cred: 4
desc: An interdisciplinary study of pregnancy and childbirth drawing on and integrating the disciplines of psychology, sociology, philosophy of science, anthropology, women's studies, and cultural studies. 

code: MIDW 103
name: Applied Health Services for Maternity Providers
cred: 3
desc: Introduction to diagnostics related to cellular and humoral immune responses in pregnant women and newborns, the properties of viruses, epidemiology, the principles of bacterial pathogenesis, and related physiologic responses. 

code: MIDW 104
name: Lactation Consultation for Maternity Care Providers
cred: 3
desc: Breastfeeding physiology, pathophysiology, and strategies for support of the dyad based on best-practice principles.  Discussion of major Canadian and international initiatives for the support and protection of breastfeeding. 

code: MIDW 105
name: Introduction to Midwifery Theory and Practice
cred: 13
desc: Normal pregnancy, labour, birth, the newborn, and puerperium with an emphasis on prenatal and postnatal midwifery care.  A series of lectures and lab practice sessions. 

code: MIDW 110
name: Critical Appraisal of the Literature
cred: 3

code: MIDW 125
name: Pharmacology for Maternity Care Providers
cred: 3
desc: An overview of basic concepts in pharmacology, pharmacy, and therapeutics relevant to the practice of midwifery in Canada. 

code: MIDW 205
name: Midwifery Theory for Primary Care
cred: 8
desc: Care of normal pregnancy, labour, birth, and puerperium with an empahsis on the intrapartum period and assessment and management skills.  Inludes a four-week intensive session in Vancouver, a series of online tutorials, and simulation and skills lab practice. 

code: MIDW 215
name: Ethics in Maternity Care
cred: 2
desc: Ethics using ethical theory in health care and midwifery. 

code: MIDW 220
name: Introduction to Midwifery Clinical Care
cred: 10
desc: Clinical care of women experiencing normal pregnancy, labour, birth, and puerperium.  Clinical education experiences in preventative and therapeutic midwifery care with emphasis on prenatal and postnatal midwifery care.  Clinical practice education opportunities within the province.  Pass/Fail. 

code: MIDW 221
name: Clinical Skills
cred: 1
desc: Online situation-based learning tutorials occurring simultaneously with MIDW 220 clinical placement. 

code: MIDW 240
name: Core Midwifery Clinical Care
cred: 9
desc: Clinical education experiences with the preventative and therapeutic midwifery care of normal pregnancy, labour, birth, and puerperium with an emphasis on the intrapartum period and assessment and management skills.  A clinical practicum in locations around the provice.  Pass/Fail. 

code: MIDW 305
name: Midwifery Theory for Variations in Primary Care
cred: 6
desc: Theoretical principles of care for pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium with an emphasis on the recognition and management of variations of normal and findings outside of normal.  Consists of a one-week intensive time in Vancouver, during which emergency skills certification is acquired, and weekly web-based tutorials. 

code: MIDW 310
name: Senior Research Project
cred: 5
desc: An original piece of scholarship that builds on knowledge and skills acquired from coursework and in consultation with faculty mentors. 

code: MIDW 320
name: Variations in Midwifery Clinical Care
cred: 12
desc: Clinical education experiences with the preventative and therapeutic midwifery care of pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium.  Emphasis on the recognition and management of variations of normal and findings outside normal.  A 12-week practicum in locations around the province.  Pass/Fail. 

code: MIDW 325
name: Professional Issues in Midwifery
cred: 3
desc: Professional issues in midwifery including responsibilities and conduct, self-care, peer review, inter-professional relations and communication, legal and business concepts, and continuous quality assurance and improvement in practice.  A series of lectures and workshops delivered in an intensive format over two weeks.  Pass/Fail. 

code: MIDW 350
name: Inter-Professional Placement
cred: 12
desc: Opportunities to explore health professions that partner with midwives to care for the childbearing family within the province.  Pass/Fail. 

code: MIDW 360
name: Global Maternal Infant Health
cred: 3
desc: Social and economic determinants of maternal and fetal health worldwide, innovative public health strategies to reducing maternal and infant mortality and morbidity, and the impact of conflict on the health of mothers and babies.  Ethical considerations related to global clinical placements and medical tourism.  Theoretical course in preparation for global clinical placement.  Pass/Fail. 
preq: MIDW 240

code: MIDW 370
name: Global Clinical Placement
cred: 9
desc: Social and economic determinants of maternal and fetal health worldwide, innovative public health strategies to reducing maternal and infant mortality and morbidity, and the impact of conflict on the health of mothers and babies.  Ethical considerations related to global clinical placements and medical tourism.  A global clinical placement.  Pass/Fail. 
preq: MIDW 360

code: MIDW 405
name: Advanced Topics in Midwifery Theory and Practice
cred: 3
desc: Theoretical principles for midwifery care of pregnancy, labour, birth, newborns, and the puerperium.  Emphasis on assessment and management skills for abnormal situations.  Includes a five-day intensive session in Vancouver, a series of online tutorials, and lab practice. 

code: MIDW 420
name: Advanced Midwifery Clinical Care
cred: 12
desc: Clinical education for midwifery care of pregnancy, birth, and the puerperium with an empahsis on abnormal situations in pregnancy, labour and birth, and in newborns.  Clinical practicum around the province.  Pass/Fail. 

code: MIDW 430
name: Comprehensive Midwifery Theory and Practice
cred: 5
desc: In-depth review of the theoretical principles and evidence basis for comprehensive midwifery care.  Tutorials are carried out in an online live classroom setting. 

code: MIDW 440
name: Clinical Clerkship
cred: 13
desc: Students assume a primary care role in clinical placements in midwifery practices across the provinces.  Demonstration of independent decision making and application of the full range of their academic knowledge to professional practice.  A practicum under the supervision of a registered midwife.  Pass/Fail. 