

code: IGEN 201
name: Integrated Technical Communication
cred: 3
desc: Written and oral communication in business correspondence, engineering design methods, report preparation, and oral presentations of technical material.  Restricted to students in second year of the Integrated Engineering Program. 
preq: APSC 176 or ENGL 110 or ENGL 111 or ENGL 112 or ENGL 120 or ENGL 121
creq: IGEN 230

code: IGEN 230
name: Introduction to Engineering Design
cred: 6
desc: Introduction to engineering design methods, problem solving, working individually and in teams, and methods of communication of results. Engineering design projects will be assigned. Restricted to students in the second year of the Integrated Engineering program. 

code: IGEN 330
name: Intermediate Engineering Design
cred: 6
desc: Intermediate level engineering design projects involving material in the curriculum of the Integrated Engineering program. 
preq: Third-year standing in the Integrated Engineering program

code: IGEN 340
name: Technology Entrepreneurship
cred: 3
desc: Theory and skills needed for engineers to capitalize on the opportunities that exist in commercializing technology, including the relationships between ideas and opportunities, customers and competition, and products and solutions. 

code: IGEN 430
name: Advanced Engineering Design Projects
cred: 6
desc: Projects involving all material in the curriculum of the Integrated Engineering Program. Students will be expected to propose a project and complete the design and construction of a prototype. Restricted to students in the fourth year of the Integrated Engineering program. 

code: IGEN 450
name: Pipeline Engineering
cred: 3
desc: Pipeline materials and material selection; fracture mechanics; manufacturing and processing; welding and corrosion; soil-pipe interactions; surveying and site investigations; slope stability; natural hazards; pipeline loads and response. 
preq: (MECH 221 or APSC 278) and (CIVL 215 or MTRL 263) and (CIVL 230 or MECH 260)

code: IGEN 451
name: Pipeline Systems and Infrastructure
cred: 3
desc: Energy infrastructure; pipe flows; equipment and facilities including compressors, pumping stations, coolers, and controls; terminals; pipeline integrity; corrosion control. 
preq: (MECH 221 or APSC 278) and (CIVL 215 or MTRL 263) and (CIVL 230 or MECH 260)

code: IGEN 452
name: Pipeline Design
cred: 3
desc: Pipeline and pipeline system design reflecting applicable policies, regulations, design codes, and design guidelines; construction management and construction techniques; risk assessment and mitigation; linear optimization; route selection; field monitoring and testing; technical design project. 
preq: IGEN 450

code: IGEN 453
name: Pipelines, Society and the Environment
cred: 3
desc: Pipeline and pipeline system design reflecting environmental, community, social, professional, economic and business considerations; public awareness and communications; stakeholder interactions; decision making; design project. 
preq: Third year standing in any B.A.Sc. program