

code: SPPH 200
name: Understanding the Sociocultural Determinants of the Health of Populations
cred: 3
desc: The Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers the idea of "population health," and the implementation and evaluation of programs or policies to improve health. Open to all students. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 200 or IHHS 200. [3-0-0]

code: SPPH 300
name: Working in International Health
cred: 3
desc: This is a tutored, web based Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course on planning/preparing for work in a developing country. Causes of ill health amongst populations living in poverty; analysis of available solutions. Health Science background not essential. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 300 or IHHS 300. 

code: SPPH 302
name: Topics in Health Informatics for Health/Life Sciences Students
cred: 3
desc: Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 302 or IHHS 302. 

code: SPPH 400
name: Statistics for Health Research
cred: 3
desc: Planned collection, numeric and graphic summarization, and elementary statistical analysis of data. Examples primarily from health sciences illustrate standard techniques for parametric and non-parametric hypothesis testing; regression and correlation; contingency tables. Also randomization, "blindfolding" and other specifically biomedical topics in statistics. Class size may be limited. [3-0]
preq: Ability to use high school Algebra and simple graphs

code: SPPH 404
name: First Nations Health: Historical and Contemporary Issues
cred: 3
desc: This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) covers an epistemological approach that considers the determinants of health and spiritual-environmental-cultural perspectives. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 404 or IHHS 404. [3-0-0]

code: SPPH 406
name: Aging from an Interdisciplinary Perspective
cred: 3
desc: This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers issues associated with aging in our society. For students registered in health and human services programs only. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 406 or IHHS 406. 

code: SPPH 408
name: Topics in Aboriginal Health: Community-based Learning Experience
cred: 6
desc: In-depth cultural and interprofessional learning experience that enables students to live and study in BC First Nations communities while learning about health, wellness, and community strengths from a local perspective. Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 408 or IHHS 408. 

code: SPPH 409
name: International Indigenous Experiences of Colonization
cred: 3
desc: This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course is an online, interprofessional, comparative inquiry of indigenous experiences of global colonization and the manifestations of that experience in the contemporary socio-cultural environment. Informed and guided by indigenous knowledge and drawing upon a range of disciplines such as public health, history, sociology and public policy. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 409 or IHHS 409. 

code: SPPH 410
name: Improving Public Health: An Interprofessional Approach to Designing and Implementing Effective Interventions
cred: 3
desc: This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course promotes collaborating interprofessionally. Each student team will identify and research a critical public health issue, and develop a detailed practical and effective intervention. Intended for students in health and human service programs. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 410 or IHHS 410. 

code: SPPH 411
name: Violence Across the Lifespan
cred: 3
desc: This Interprofessional Health and Human Service (IHHS) course covers violence in families across the lifespan. Particular emphasis on intersections of race, class, and gender; the long-term impact of childhood exposure to violence; and prevention-focused initiatives. Credit will be granted for only one of SPPH 411 or IHHS 411. 

code: SPPH 481
name: Special Topics in Population and Public Health
cred: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
desc: Selected topics will vary.  Multiple versions may be taken. This course takes an interprofessional approach and population/public health perspective in addressing current issues in healthcare and health-related fields. 